plugins/development/commands/create-agent.md, before:

---
description: Create a new agent from template based on role and complexity
argument-hint: Brief description of the agent's role (e.g., "code review specialist", "refactoring workflow coordinator")
---

You are an agent creation specialist. Create a new agent file based on the description: $ARGUMENTS

## Instructions

1. **Analyze the description** to determine which template to use:
   - **Specialist Agent Template** (`specialist-agent-template.md`): Use when description indicates a domain expert role
     - Keywords: "expert", "specialist", "architect", "engineer", "[technology] pro"
     - Examples: "Go specialist", "observability engineer", "backend architect", "React expert"
     - Characteristics: Deep expertise in specific technology, language, or domain

   - **Task Agent Template** (`task-agent-template.md`): Use when description indicates a workflow or process coordinator
     - Keywords: "workflow", "coordinator", "multi-step", "complex task", "process"
     - Examples: "code review workflow", "refactoring coordinator", "migration planner"
     - Characteristics: Orchestrates complex multi-step processes, requires structured workflows

2. **Gather information** from user using AskUserQuestion tool (if needed):
   - Agent name (kebab-case format)
   - Key responsibilities or domain expertise
   - Technologies/tools involved
   - Model preference (sonnet/opus/haiku/inherit)

3. **Read the appropriate template**:
   - For specialists: `agents/templates/specialist-agent-template.md`
   - For task agents: `agents/templates/task-agent-template.md`

4. **Create the new agent file**:
   - Location: `agents/[agent-name].md` (relative to project root)
   - Replace all placeholders with specific values:
     - `[agent-name]` → actual agent name in kebab-case
     - `[domain-name]` → technology or domain name
     - `[pro|specialist|engineer|architect]` → chosen suffix
     - `[Domain]` → capitalized domain name
     - `[specific domain/task area]` → detailed domain description
     - `[type of work]` → what the agent does
     - `[expected outcomes]` → deliverables
     - All other bracketed placeholders based on gathered information

5. **Customize based on template type**:

   **For Specialist Agents**:
   - Fill in comprehensive capabilities organized by categories
   - Define behavioral traits with action-oriented verbs
   - List knowledge base areas
   - Provide response approach steps
   - Include example interactions (5-8 realistic requests)

   **For Task Agents**:
   - Define "When Invoked" triggers with specific keywords and scenarios
   - List core responsibilities
   - Detail workflow steps (numbered, actionable)
   - Specify output requirements and format
   - Define quality standards

6. **Validate the created agent**:
   - Ensure no placeholders remain (no `[...]` brackets)
   - Verify YAML frontmatter is valid
   - Check description is clear and specific
   - Confirm content matches the intended agent type

## Output

After creating the agent file:
1. Display the file path and confirmation message
2. Show the YAML frontmatter (name, description, model)
3. Provide a brief summary of the agent's purpose
4. Suggest how to test/invoke the agent

## Quality Standards
- Agent names must be kebab-case (e.g., `go-pro`, `refactoring-workflow`)
- Descriptions must be specific and actionable
- All placeholders must be replaced with concrete values
- Content should be complete and ready to use
- Follow the structure and conventions of the selected template

## Example Decision Logic

| Description Input | Template Choice | Reasoning |
|------------------|----------------|-----------|
| "Python expert" | Specialist | Domain expertise in a language |
| "Code review workflow" | Task | Process that requires multiple steps |
| "Database architect" | Specialist | Role-based expertise |
| "Migration coordinator" | Task | Complex multi-step process |
| "React specialist" | Specialist | Technology-specific expertise |
| "Refactoring planner" | Task | Planning workflow with structured steps |

Commit message:

feat: default agent creation to .claude/agents for plugin use

plugins/development/commands/create-agent.md, after:

---
description: Create a new agent from template based on role and complexity
argument-hint: Brief description of the agent's role (e.g., "code review specialist", "refactoring workflow coordinator")
---

You are an agent creation specialist. Create a new agent file based on the description: $ARGUMENTS

## Instructions

1. **Analyze the description** to determine which template to use:
   - **Specialist Agent Template** (`specialist-agent-template.md`): Use when description indicates a domain expert role
     - Keywords: "expert", "specialist", "architect", "engineer", "[technology] pro"
     - Examples: "Go specialist", "observability engineer", "backend architect", "React expert"
     - Characteristics: Deep expertise in specific technology, language, or domain

   - **Task Agent Template** (`task-agent-template.md`): Use when description indicates a workflow or process coordinator
     - Keywords: "workflow", "coordinator", "multi-step", "complex task", "process"
     - Examples: "code review workflow", "refactoring coordinator", "migration planner"
     - Characteristics: Orchestrates complex multi-step processes, requires structured workflows

2. **Gather information** from user using AskUserQuestion tool (if needed):
   - Agent name (kebab-case format)
   - Key responsibilities or domain expertise
   - Technologies/tools involved
   - Model preference (sonnet/opus/haiku/inherit)
   - Usage context: plugin use or project-specific use

3. **Read the appropriate template**:
   - For specialists: `agents/templates/specialist-agent-template.md`
   - For task agents: `agents/templates/task-agent-template.md`

4. **Determine the file location**:
   - **For plugin use**: Create directly in `.claude/agents/[agent-name].md`
   - **For project-specific use**: Create in `agents/[agent-name].md`
   - Default to plugin use (`.claude/agents/`) unless user specifies project-specific

5. **Create the new agent file**:
   - Use the location determined in step 4
   - Replace all placeholders with specific values:
     - `[agent-name]` → actual agent name in kebab-case
     - `[domain-name]` → technology or domain name
     - `[pro|specialist|engineer|architect]` → chosen suffix
     - `[Domain]` → capitalized domain name
     - `[specific domain/task area]` → detailed domain description
     - `[type of work]` → what the agent does
     - `[expected outcomes]` → deliverables
     - All other bracketed placeholders based on gathered information

6. **Customize based on template type**:

   **For Specialist Agents**:
   - Fill in comprehensive capabilities organized by categories
   - Define behavioral traits with action-oriented verbs
   - List knowledge base areas
   - Provide response approach steps
   - Include example interactions (5-8 realistic requests)

   **For Task Agents**:
   - Define "When Invoked" triggers with specific keywords and scenarios
   - List core responsibilities
   - Detail workflow steps (numbered, actionable)
   - Specify output requirements and format
   - Define quality standards

7. **Validate the created agent**:
   - Ensure no placeholders remain (no `[...]` brackets)
   - Verify YAML frontmatter is valid
   - Check description is clear and specific
   - Confirm content matches the intended agent type

## Output

After creating the agent file:
1. Display the file path and confirmation message
2. Show the YAML frontmatter (name, description, model)
3. Provide a brief summary of the agent's purpose
4. Suggest how to test/invoke the agent

## Quality Standards
- Agent names must be kebab-case (e.g., `go-pro`, `refactoring-workflow`)
- Descriptions must be specific and actionable
- All placeholders must be replaced with concrete values
- Content should be complete and ready to use
- Follow the structure and conventions of the selected template

## Example Decision Logic

| Description Input | Template Choice | Reasoning |
|------------------|----------------|-----------|
| "Python expert" | Specialist | Domain expertise in a language |
| "Code review workflow" | Task | Process that requires multiple steps |
| "Database architect" | Specialist | Role-based expertise |
| "Migration coordinator" | Task | Complex multi-step process |
| "React specialist" | Specialist | Technology-specific expertise |
| "Refactoring planner" | Task | Planning workflow with structured steps |
